Similar to how databases have tables to organize and segment datasets,
Kafka uses the concept of topics to organize related events.
Unlike database tables, Kafka topics are not queryable.
Instead, you must create producers or consumers to utilize the data.
For example, you may have a topic called logs which contains
the logs from your application,and another topic called purchases,
which contains all purchase data for your application.
In Kafka, topics can be created automatically,
programmatically from within your application or from the command line.
All topics consist of a stream of key-value data.
If you're familiar with JSON data,
this is a similar concept.
However, the way that Kafka represents this relationship was with a binary format,
not texturally as you will by JSON.
Kafka topics are rich with configuration options and considerations,
which we are going to review in depth in the next lesson.